---
layout: post
title: Nerstudio VFX Blender Add-on

show_tile: false
---

<ul class="actions">
	<li><a href="experimentationNeural.html" class="button small">Go back and see more research projects</a></li>
</ul>

## Nerfstudio Blender VFX Add-on

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/A7La8tWp_0I?si=uChvOIFJ7WniBMTY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Overview

I created a Blender add-on that allows NeRFs to be used in visual effects. This enables a pipeline for integrating NeRFs into traditional compositing VFX pipelines using Nerfstudio. This approach leverages using Blender, a widely used open-source 3D creation software, to align camera paths and composite NeRF renders with meshes and other NeRFs, allowing for seamless integration of NeRFs into traditional VFX pipelines. It allows for more controlled camera trajectories of photorealistic scenes, compositing meshes and other environmental effects with NeRFs, and compositing multiple NeRFs in a single scene. This approach of generating NeRF aligned camera paths can be adapted to other 3D tool sets and workflows, enabling a more seamless integration of NeRFs into visual effects and film production. This also supports Nerfstudio gaussian splatting as well.

The exported mesh or point cloud representation is imported into Blender and a render camera path is generated by transforming the coordinate space of the NeRF scene to the Blender virtual camera, allowing aligned camera paths.

## Implementation Details

For generating the JSON camera path, we iterate over the scene frame sequence (from the start to the end with step intervals) and get the camera 4x4 world matrix at each frame. The world transformation matrix gives the position, rotation, and scale of the camera. We then obtain the world matrix of the NeRF representation at each frame and transform the camera coordinates with this to get the final camera world matrix. This allows us to re-position, rotate, and scale the NeRF representation in Blender and generate the right camera path to render the NeRF accordingly in Nerfstudio. Additionally, we calculate the FOV of the camera at each frame based on the sensor fit (horizontal or vertical), angle of view, and aspect ratio. Next, we construct the list of keyframes which is very similar to the world matrices of the transformed camera matrix. Camera properties in the JSON file are based on user specified fields such as resolution (user specified in Output Properties in Blender), camera type (Perspective or Equirectangular). In the JSON file, aspect is specified as 1.0, smoothness_value is set to 0, and is_cycle is set to false. The Nerfstudio render is the fps specified in Blender where the duration is the total number of frames divided by the fps. Finally, we construct the full JSON object and write it to the file path specified by the user.

For generating the camera from the JSON file, we create a new Blender camera based on the input file and iterate through the camera_path field in the JSON to get the world matrix of the object from the matrix_to_world and similarly get the FOV from the fov fields. At each iteration, we set the camera to these parameters and insert a keyframe based on the position, rotation, and scale of the camera as well as the focal length of the camera based on the vertical FOV input.



<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">v0.1.16 Released 🎉<br><br>New Blender integration for VFX workflows!<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NeRF?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#NeRF</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/nerfacto?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#nerfacto</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/VFX?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#VFX</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Blender3d?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Blender3d</a> <a href="https://t.co/uU8QO1AWwU">pic.twitter.com/uU8QO1AWwU</a></p>&mdash; nerfstudio (@nerfstudioteam) <a href="https://twitter.com/nerfstudioteam/status/1618868366072229888?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 27, 2023</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I created documentation for it [here](https://docs.nerf.studio/extensions/blender_addon.html) and a tutorial video demonstrating basic exmaples using the add-on as well as a breakdown of other effects that can be done with it.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vDhj6j7kfWM?si=zmlFcZoxZipyTEqs" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I also have a blog post style walkthrough of making it.
<ul class="actions">
	<li><a href="nerfstudio_vfx_blender.html" class="button small">Read More</a></li>
</ul>



<ul class="actions">
	<li><a href="research.html" class="button small">Go back and see more research projects</a></li>
</ul>
